#summary Accelerated Eclipse Guide
#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured

Here's my accelerated guide to setting up Eclipse to work with our version control system. This might be a bit daunting the first time you do it if you're not familiar with these technologies, so if you reach an impasse, feel free to contact me. I can also help you set this up if we meet in person. Without further ado, the guide:

  * download and install [http://www.eclipse.org/ Eclipse]
  * install [http://subclipse.tigris.org/ Subclipse]
   * fire up Eclipse
   * go to Help, Software Updates, Find and Install
   * continue following the [http://subclipse.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectProcess?pageID=p4wYuA online instructions]
   * if something breaks (as often happens on CISE systems), you can install Subclipse from an archived site rather than a remote site: download [http://subclipse.tigris.org/files/documents/906/47423/site-1.6.10.zip site-1.6.10.zip]
  * in Eclipse, create a new project
   * select New, Project..., SVN, Checkout Projects from SVN
   * add the repository location: [https://prmf.googlecode.com/svn/]
   * input [https://code.google.com/hosting/settings your credentials] when prompted
   * only get the project directory from the trunk, we'll deal with tags and branches later if needed
   * say you want the New Project wizard when asked and configure it as a Java project
   * sit back, relax, the download will finish shortly

*How to fix strange compile errors*
Many of us have had the problem of our Scanner class not being recognized. This is happening because Eclipse doesn't default to the newest JRE we have -- in our case it's using 1.5 when it should be using 1.6. Thankfully we have a fix! For the CISE computers:

  * In the command prompt, type "which java". This should give you the directory path to
the JRE. Unfortunately, this is most likely a shortcut. The real java should have folder
/jre/ in its path 
  * Until you get to the directory with /jre/ in the path, type "ls -l path", where
path is the path you got in the previous step. You should get another path-- if it's the
one with JRE, proceed, else repeat the process with the new path until you get the right
one.
  * Copy the path up to /jre and open Eclipse.
  * In Eclipse, choose Projects --> Java Build Path --> Libraries --> Installed JREs -->
Add, followed by pasting the URL into the home directory. hit OK, delete the old one and
select the new one, then make it workspace default and you are done!

If you aren't on a CISE computer: figure it out yourself :|