#summary The self-proclaimed client of the future

Ever wonder how some people can be in the IRC channel _all_ the time? They're probably connected from a server. And they're probably using Irssi.

*Irssi* ([http://www.irssi.org/]) is "a terminal based IRC client for UNIX systems." It's a different experience from the graphical client you may be used to, but it's worth a try.

= Installing on [Cise CISE] systems =

The following sequence of commands installs Irssi in your home directory. It even cleans up after itself. This was tested on `thunder` (and should therefore work on `storm` as well). It didn't work on `eclipse` because of a missing dependency (and will therefore probably _not_ work on the older Sun machines, either).

{{{
wget http://www.irssi.org/files/irssi-0.8.15.tar.bz2
tar xjf irssi-0.8.15.tar.bz2
cd irssi-0.8.15
./configure --prefix=$HOME
make
make install
cd ..
rm -rf irssi-0.8.15 irssi-0.8.15.tar.bz2
}}}

After installation completes, the executable is `bin/irssi` in your home directory. If your path environment variable includes your personal `bin`, all you have to do is run `irssi` on the command line!

= Using =

Check out [http://quadpoint.org/articles/irssi A Guide to Efficiently Using Irssi and Screen], an excellent tutorial which covers Irssi basics as well as how you too can always be on IRC.

= Auto-join to our IRC channel =

Since it gets annoying to type /connect irc.freenode.net and identify yourself to NickServ every time you want to join our IRC channel, you can tell Irssi to add these settings to your config file (warning: do not edit the config file manually, irssi hates that).

First make sure you are connected to the server and have your nick set properly. Then, do the following (replace "secret" with your password):

`/SERVER ADD -auto -network Freenode irc.freenode.net 6667 secret`

`/CHANNEL ADD -auto #ufpt Freenode`

`/save`
