#summary Main page of the Shark Attack project
#labels Projects

_Keep in mind that all of this is subject to change (but fairly certain)_

*Shark Attack* will be a game where two players will battle in real time and it will be much like the pokemon battle style which I will explain briefly:
Both players will have up to 6 ufptmons, which will in turn have 4 moves/attacks each. During each turn, both players will choose which move each ufptmon will use. Once both have decided, each attack will be performed and damage/status change will be dealt. Once a ufptmon's hp <= 0, then that upftmon will faint and will be replaced. Player will win when all other player's ufptmons have fainted.

= Current ideas =

  * All ufptmons will be characters based on people/friends of ufpters.
  * Each ufptmon will have basic "types" which will include: Troll, Evil, Studious, Normal, Instructor, Creative.
  * Types will be strong/weak against each other, therefore dealing more/less damage than other types would when attacking a particular type. It will be something like this: Troll>Instructor>Studious>Creative>Evil>Normal>Troll. (Will probably add more relationships)
  * Game will be networked so that we may play online.

= Current issues =

  * Picking a language to use for this project. [JosephThuemler Joseph Thuemler] has suggested that we use something other than Java so that we may expand our horizons.
  ** The language generally suggested - multiple times - is Python. Familiarity with pygame and some knowledge of python would be nice.
  * Starting the programming planning.