#summary Project page for JTrisApplet
#labels Projects

= What is JTrisApplet? = 

JTrisApplet is an online tetromino game. It's like the original puzzle classic Tetris, but with many more engaging features - the most notable being extensive multiplayer support. Built from the ground up with group play in mind. JTrisApplet has support for many competing players, multiple game-play modes, and in-game chat. Independent server architecture provides superior admin benefits (compared to user-hosted games) and keeps accurate track of player accounts and their associated game scores. The open-source Java platform supports Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux operating systems.

The development of JTrisApplet is led by [BrianNez Brian Nez]. This software was initially created for the experience of learning object-oriented programming, but has now grown into a full open-source project.

JTrisApplet is currently still under active development and is in no way complete. In fact, this is the fourth from-scratch rewrite I am doing of the project. It is in alpha -- the non-feature-complete development stage -- which means that this software is not intended for general use yet.

= Features =

== Game Features ==

 * Online multiplayer support
 * Server-side high score tracker

== Technical Features ==

 * Written in Java for full cross-platform compatibility
 * Client-server architecture with standalone CLI server
 * Multi-threaded
 * Load and save configuration from files
 * Logging to file or stdout

== Planned Features ==

 * Built-in chatroom
 * Open registration on the server
 * Ability to ban based on IP/IP-range (prevent abusive registrations, etc.)
 * Co-operative mode
 * Tournament mode
 * Double-player mode (both competitive and co-operative)
 * 3D Special Effects (in OpenGL?)